# 3rd_PaperPublication: Criminal Face Generation SKETCH TO IMAGE GENERATION USING GAN 

# **Abstract:**

Recent technological advancements have eased the process of making life in this modern world
less complicated day after day. Among many of the difficulties the computer vision and graphics
are at present, one of the important challenges is to convert hand-drawn sketches into photographs.
This technique, especially in applications such as facial sketch synthesis and its inverse process,
poses various extreme difficulties because photos and sketches are intrinsically different from one
another. With a basis on traditional practices, the methods are now mostly edge map accuracy
based and retrieving older images, which makes them less efficient and not easily adaptable. Our
key contribution lies in presenting a novel method based on GANs, which is a learning model
involving two or more neural networks, playing a minimax game with each other while yielding
high-quality image generation. The real images generated by our system retain identity,
outperforming any competing existing methods.
Recent GAN-based sketch-to-image translation techniques depict promising results toward the
creation of realistic images. Our technique consisted of integration with Stable Diffusion,
enhancing synthesis for sharper images. Web-based implementation was also considered using
Gradio and the easy usability of the interactive interface alongside easy access and deployment.
Experimental results validate that our model works effectively in generating visually pleasing and
identity-preserving images across challenging datasets, thereby establishing a new state of the art
in the sketch-to-image synthesis realm. 
